OK let's go ahead and let's make this mock up.
Now the first thing we want to do is we want to save this out so we don't lose our Spryte sheet document.
So I'll go file save as and I'm going to create a new folder and I'm just going to call it Spryte sheet
and we'll just save it in there.
I'm going to save it out as final Sprite she save.
OK great.
Now we're going to go ahead and receive this out as a different document so that way we can play with
this document and not worry about losing what we had before.
So we'll go file save as and let's call this one animation test
now can start building our animation mock up.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to grab all of our layers and drag them over so that they're
all lined up with each other.
So we can leave frame one in place.
We're going to start with frame too and what we'll do is we'll just grab it and move him so that his
mask lines up with the other mask we can zoom in just to make sure it's lined up.
So now let's grab our next layer which is frame three and we'll drag that over and make sure that he
is lining up with the other guys.
Great now we'll come up to frame four.
And even though he's not on our screen we can just go ahead and start dragging him over like so and
we'll just make sure that he also lines up.
Awesome.
So now that those guys are all lined up it looks kind of funny.
He looks like he has six legs and six arms.
But we're going to fix that in a second.
So what we're going to do is we're going to come up to window and then we're going to come down to where
it says time line towards the bottom of the list.
So we'll hit that and the ads and a timeline down here at the bottom of our Photoshop document.
What we want to do is we want to click right here where it says create frame animation.
Once we click that it's going to create our first frame.
So the way this works is whatever layers are turned on while we have our frame selected is what's going
to show on that frame.
So let's go ahead and turn off all of our layers except for our frame one layer.
Next we're going to add a new frame by hitting this little icon down here that looks like the new layer
icon.
So hit that.
And now that's just added frame to now on frame 2.
We want to show the layer that has frame 2 on it.
So I'll turn on the frame to layer and turn off the frame one layer and we're just going to do this
all the way up to frame 4.
So add a new layer turn off frame to turn on frame 3 we'll add one more layer and we'll turn off frame
3 and turn on frame for snails see if we start back at frame 1.
It starts with the frame 1 and it will switch through each one of those layers.
All right.
Awesome.
Now we can go ahead and play that and see how it looks.
So down here is the play button at the bottom.
Well go ahead and click that and it plays it.
Now is only playing at once because right here you'll see it says Once we want to hit that drop down
menu and we want to select for ever.
Now let's try playing it again awesome.
Now he's moving too fast at this point.
It doesn't really matter because this is just a mockup to see his motion.
But if you want to see what he looks like going slower.
What you can do is go ahead and stop the animation.
And what we need to do is we need to change the frames per second.
Now what that means is how many frames are being shown per second.
So what we'll do is we're going to select all of our frames by starting with the first one holding down
shift and then clicking all the way down to our last frame.
Next what we'll do is coming over to where it says 0 seconds at the bottom of our frame we're going
to hit that and it's going to bring up this drop down menu.
What we want to do is we want to add a little bit of a delay at this point to zero seconds of delay
between each frame.
So we want to add 0.1 seconds.
So select that.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and play it and see how it looks.
That looks much better.
Now like I said this is not the final animation.
This is just a mock up of the animation so you can see how the animation flows and looks.
The worst thing is to upload all of your spreadsheets into your game and find out that the animation
looks horrible.
So this is a quick and easy way that you can check your animation and make sure that the movement looks
good.
Hope this lecture was really exciting for you and you're really starting to see the possibilities of
how you can animate things and how easy it actually is.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.